Israel has one of the world's most
powerful militaries with Advanced
surveillance systems and weapons it also
receives more than $3 billion dollar in
US military aid every year Israel has
developed its own mobile air defense
system the Iron Dome with financing from
the US there are more than 169,000
active Israeli military personnel and
465,000
reservists Israel has significant land
power with more than 2,000 tanks and
hundreds of artillery its Arsenal also
includes 339 combat capable aircraft
including fighter
jets well to help us unpack a lot of
this uh we're joined Now by Elias Hana
who is in bayout he is a retired
Lebanese General and a military analyst
thank you very much for your time sir uh
first of all when we run through that
list of the capabilities the military
capabilities of Israel how worried
should Hamas and those living inside
Gaza B right
now I mean they have to be worried but
they have chosen to go into the offense
because this is the first time they made
like they waged the uh offensive
campaign inside occupied Palestine this
is the first time because now they are
measuring their success that they are
going into occupied land and then
fighting and they were preparing and
planning to stay and fight uh uh in the
near abroad of Gaza however they have
really uh they have they have to
calculate I mean the different scenario
because when you go to war you plan for
the worst case scenario and you hope for
the best so they have they have had in
their mind that uh at one time they have
to withdraw to Gaza and uh waiting for
maybe big operation Land The Invasion
for uh Gaz so they have to be uh
prepared for that as far as logistic is
concerned as far as tactics is concerned
and at bringing and pulling the the
Israeli IDF into Gaza it's like
something you know very dangerous for
for Israel however uh when you have like
this emergency cabinet and U calling
like 300,000 troops and then massing
these kind of you know tanks and uh you
know armored vehicles around Gaza it
means that there is something is coming
just staying with Israel I mean they
were clearly surprised by what happened
on Saturday morning and we heard from
Israel's military Chief of Staff just a
short time ago he said we will learn we
will investigate but now is the time for
War what exactly do you think that
Israel will be trying to achieve in in
the days now before potential escalation
into the next phase of this
War I think that's there's must be some
proportionality I mean this surprise and
this losses for Israel uh you know
intelligence failure they have to do
something at least equal in order to
erase all of that so maybe there is
three main objectives dismantle Hamas or
destroy Hamas then freeing the hostages
and then maybe avoiding trying to avoid
collateral damage which is not the case
today so these three objectives are
really contradictory with with each
other you know what I mean so it's like
a war and trying to really dismantle
Hamas or paralyze Hamas in Gaza now as
we've we've seen over the last few days
there has been a huge buildup of uh
troops along the border with Gaza from a
military point of view what would happen
if Israel was to send ground troops into
Gaza what would play out from that
moment
on I think maybe we are we are
witnessing now the first phase with is
really softening the ground preparing
the ground this is the first one hitting
like the center of gravity of Hamas all
infrastructure and pushing the people to
go uh toward Egypt maybe to this
Corridor human humanitarian Corridor
this is the first phase the second phase
is maybe going into Gaza but before
going into Gaza they have to go uh by
force then they have to bypass the mines
so they have to uh uh bypass the
anti-tank weapon and then maybe the
tunnel so however I think that Israelis
will choose maybe maybe According to
some articles and Analysis that maybe
they will try to go and divide Gaza in
the middle because in Gaza if you want
to do something you have to to look into
three main things main pillars uh
demography where is he in the demography
it's in Gaza City I mean you have to
look for topography and geography maybe
in in the middle near D balah from the
Gaza border into the the coast to the
Mediterranean Sea that is like six
kilometers According to some analyst
maybe Israel will try to divide Gaza
into two parts however going into Gaza
can they stay inside uh what would be
the theory of victory for Netanyahu
Hamas what is after Hamas so this is the
whole issue now maybe it's a little
bit blurred yes and it certainly is now
as we know Hamas is holding a number of
Israeli captives I mean how does that
affect what could happen from a military
point of
view I mean there will be a hindrance
for you know for the Israelis to go
inside and maybe the American are
sending with more military uh means to
Naim Airbase in in NE they are sending
some troops of the Delta Force this kind
of Delta Force they are specialized in
uh uh freeing hostages would these guys
participate I don't think so and maybe
they are will be like advisory however
Israel can I mean Hamas can use these
hostages maybe as a human shield that
put them and this distribute them in
many many issue and it depends on Israel
will'll go and hit these targets I mean
there is an Israel like the protocol of
Hannibal uh when a soldier is kidnapped
and you see him uh it's better to kill
him as well as the kidnapper because a
Dead Soldier is better than a hostage
okay well thank you so much for that
it'll be fascinating to see exactly what
plays out over the next few days and
weeks thank you so much that is Elias
Hana for us a retired Lebanese General
and a military analyst